so will be so today we're going to start
talking about the real world alright
we're going to move away from the cradle
from the classes that we created
ourselves and start using the real thing
and to that end we are going to start
talking about the Java libraries so many
of you have anybody who's taken java in
high school is already seen most of this
but now we're going to start learning
about it for everybody who has not done
that during lecture so far the story
half of the class has been about
building data structures and we've
basically given some exemplification zuv
ideas that are going to be important to
us throughout the rest of the semester
from the next ten weeks
so in particular we in class built a
list 61b and for interface and we also
developed an A List and an S list class
which were ok but they didn't do
everything efficiently so for example
what did s list not do super efficiently
at last right and so we give you a
chance to go and build something even
better you had a double-ended queue
which had a few more operations than a
list 61b
and in your case you were able to
efficiently support add in rows last
using the array deck and linked list
deck interfaces I mean sorry
implementations and so in both cases
what we ended up doing is we had an
abstract data type like an idea right
the thing that the people in the cave
believes and then we had the secret
actions of the monk so I did a version
you did a version now of course there's
this stuff here and then there's a real
world which we'll see in a moment but
before we get to that I'll say that in
addition to this this has been the main
story of the class so far with a little
bit of a sidetrack which is another nice
use of implementation inheritance which
was for comparison so we saw it with
interfaces ok this is actually kind of a
bug you know what I realized this is
from last year which is the interface
inheritance anyway
curse is spring 2016 Josh anyway so two
more uses for interfaces that we saw in
addition to capturing this nice story is
it gives us a contract that where we can
say if you are an our comparable object
you definitely have a compare method so
in this case we're using interface
inheritance to say what you're capable
these are and so you could say that a
dog for example has the capabilities of
comparison and also gave us a way to get
around the fact that in Java we can't
pass functions along inside of point we
can't hand off functions as arguments to
functions so as a result we are able to
use implementations or interface
inheritance that basically create
objects like say character comparator
that's something you did in project 1 C
so that we actually even you built a
class that can basically act kind of
like a function generation function in a
bit and way in the sense that you could
pick arbitrary m okay so in other words
we've used interfaces in two ways first
we've captured this really nice idea of
walling off the abstract universe of the
people who live our sites
yeah the abstract universe the people
that live in the cave and in the true
universe of the monks wiggling around
their things in front of the flames and
we also use it as a way to express the
capabilities of objects so those are two
ways you could think about what we've
done so far so this idea of drawing a
line between the people on the cave and
the monks we are now going to start
seeing what it is that the real world
does so instead of the double-ended
queue that we implement it or that we
made up just for the purpose of this
class and these that you've invented
we're going to move on to what Java will
do okay now this notion of the this
distinction between an abstract data
type and an actual implementation is
something that we're going to harp on
over and over again and so what I'm
going to do is start introducing other
abstract data types so we've seen the
double-ended queue in class and the wrap
so the next half of lecture so we're
going to see others that you've seen
before okay so it gives a new one that
you may or may not have heard of before
known as the stack so what is a deck
well it's an abstract data type that has
two operations push and pop and in this
case is just integers so for example
this stack currently has the number four
and if I start pushing things they're
going to go on top of the stack it's a
stack of things so if I push the number
six it appears if I now push the number
two it appears and now the only other
thing I can do with a stack is pop okay
what does it mean to pop something off
of the stack when the states two will go
away so it's a lot like a double into -
except it's single-ended
so we can only put stuff and take them
off of the top so that's what's the
stack abstract data type is now there's
like basically an infinite number of
ways you could implement this thing but
I want you to just consider what you
know already if we were to try and
implement this new abstract data type so
you may have never seen that has only
these two operations which of these two
do you think would be faster so give it
a shot think about this on Shaoqi comm
flash rainbow
you
can we get a vote of 4 to 1
within the favor of linked lists someone
who thinks array is a better answer
who's willing to say why yes less
popular answer I'll warn you in advance
so why do you think the REA might be
better yeah well why is it better yeah
yeah I think we had a pop a ton top from
the end so what do you mean how would
you actually how would you pop for
example with an array based
implementation so you do size minus 1 if
you did it with a linked list what would
you have to do you might have to iterate
through the entire list okay why do you
not need to iterate through the entire
list of pop linked list buddy yeah oh
you were you're a proponent of linked
lists
you guys are debating now so why don't
you have to iterate through the whole
linked list to get to it though also in
your proposing that the pointer will
always be at the top so if you have a
top pointer then you don't have to
iterate through okay so what I would
argue is if you do the linked list where
you keep the pointer to four then indeed
it will be slow but if you keep it on -
it'll X should be okay you could argue
that maybe possibly it's a little more
work each time you're moved from a
linked list I know does it really will
be so the argument that maybe why would
an array be slower would be my next
question
you have to resize some time now is it a
meaningful difference it turns out for a
stack it doesn't actually matter which
one you do it'll pretty much be equally
good so long as you make sure that
you're tracking with the linked list the
last or the top okay as long as you keep
a top pointer they're going to be about
the same but a linked list will have a
slight advantage because it will never
have to do the resizing operation okay
how about another one
no one here's another abstract data type
so you've probably never heard of
because I made it up it's called a
grab-bag so in this case it supports for
operation it has insert which inserts X
into the grab bag and the bag is just a
bag right this bag it doesn't have any
particular order
it is like toss the thing in it when I
do remove let's put some things in it
this thing I take out some stuff and
then I have this thing which is already
in there and then I got something back
that's removed you get a random thing
and sample means to basically look in
the bag and be like microphone okay but
not take it out and sighs tell me
there's some number of things in the bag
okay so that's an abstract data type you
can use that without even knowing what a
linked list or an array is but let's
suppose you tried to implement it which
one do you think would be a better
implementation overall just use your
intuition I mean my phone it's in the
bag
okay the room is not quite but is nearly
unanimous so this time I'll just say
array people why do you think it'll be
faster so for sample with an array you
can just pick a random number between
zero and the number of items or however
it's stored and you can go straight
there and get the item you want with the
linked list presumably it'd be a little
more complicated because to do sampling
you need to scan through the list and
even if you kept like a random pointer
you still need to keep generating random
pointers which involves necessarily
scanning over the list so there you go
so arrays in this case will probably be
well as fact will be a much better
solution you could maybe do something
sneaky with a linked list we also keep
an array of all the items but then
you're kind of cheating